Welcome to the IBM Business Analyst Professional Certificate. 

Business analysis is all about figuring out what a business needs and finding the right solutions to its challenges. 
Business analysts play a key role in understanding an organization's requirements and opportunities and ensuring that 
solutions align with business goals. Their work isn't just about solving problems, it's about driving efficiency, 
staying ahead of the competition, and boosting profitability. As a result, the demand for business analysts has increased 
significantly in recent years and is projected to continue. Pursuing a career in business analysis comes with a lot of perks, 
intellectual challenges, high job demand, and potential for growth and advancement. If you're thinking about this career path, 
it's all about building the right skills and credentials.

Obtaining an industry-recognized certification can boost your earning potential and make you more competitive in the job market. 
According to the International Institute of Business Analysis, or IIBA, certified business analysis professionals earn 15% more
than their peers. This IBM Professional Certificate equips you with the holistic skill set to succeed as a business analyst,
including analytical, technical, interpersonal, and management skills. The courses in this program are aligned with the
Entry Certificate in Business Analysis, or ECBA certification. This certification covers foundational knowledge on how 
to approach business analysis according to the BABOK Guide, a standard for the practice of business analysis. 
This program is designed for anyone aspiring to start their career as a business analyst or professionals transitioning into this role. 
Or are you already a business analyst?

This certificate program is ideal for you as well. It will allow you to enhance your skills, specialize in certain areas,
and prepare for certifications like ECBA and CCBA. This program provides a comprehensive introduction to business analysis, 
covering both foundational and advanced concepts. Learn about the business analysis process and the role and responsibilities
of a business analyst. Discover the essential techniques for process modeling, requirements gathering, stakeholder engagement, 
and project management. Apply the concepts and techniques for system analysis. Gain hands-on experience with data analysis and 
visualization tools.

The program is spread across focused, self-paced courses, each requiring 6 to 10 hours to complete. Your first step in the 
program is to understand the fundamentals of business analysis. Discover the key steps of the business analysis process and
the skills and responsibilities of a business analyst. Also gain familiarity with the common tools and techniques used in business 
analysis. The program focuses on gaining proficiency in Excel, a common tool for data analysis. You'll learn to employ data quality
techniques to import and clean data and analyze data with filtering, sorting, lookup functions, and pivot tables. In the program,
you'll learn how to create charts and advanced visualizations using tree maps, scatter charts, histograms, build map charts, and
spark lines using Microsoft Excel.

Learn how to use business intelligence or BI tools like IBM Cognos Analytics and Google Looker to create interactive dashboards. 
Next, you will learn the key process modeling techniques and requirements gathering methods. You will learn and develop effective 
communication strategies for engaging stakeholders and collecting input from them. This and the subsequent courses in the program 
are specifically aligned with the BABOK guide. Subsequently, you will identify the role of business analysis in project management 
and develop project planning and execution skills. You'll learn to apply effective communication strategies and conduct risk 
assessment to identify potential threats. Further, the program emphasizes systems analysis in business and technology.

Explore a systematic approach to conducting system analysis and learn to apply different tools and techniques in systems analysis. 
The program includes a capstone project. You'll apply the knowledge and skills acquired throughout the program to execute a
practical business analysis project. Finally, yet importantly, the program focuses specifically on preparing for the ECBA exam by
providing mock questions and guiding you through strategies to build confidence and enhance your exam performance.
The content in this program is designed to engage and empower you. By viewing curated concept videos and practicing techniques 
in hands-on labs and projects, you will feel more confident about the skills for a successful business analyst career. 
A career as a business analyst is full of promise and earning an industry-recognized certification can significantly boost 
your professional credibility.

Are you ready to take your expertise to the next level and stand out in the field? Let's get started!
